There are three kinds of bees in a hive: Queen, Worker and Drone.
Only the Queen in the hive lays eggs. She communicates with her hive with her own special scent called pheromones. The queen will lay around 1,500 eggs per day.
Workers perform the following tasks outside the hive as Field Bees: Gathering nectar and pollen from flowers, collecting water and a sticky substance called propolis.
Bees have two stomachs - one stomach for eating and the other special stomach is for storing nectar collected from flowers or water so that they can carry it back to their hive.
The male bees in the hive are called drones. Their job in the hive is to find a queen to mate with. Male bees fly out and meet in special drone congregation areas where they hope to meet a queen. Male drone bees don't have a stinger.
If a worker bee uses her stinger, she will die.
Bees are classified as insects and they have six legs.
Bees have five eyes - two compound eyes and three tiny ocelli eyes.
Bees go through four stages of development: Egg, Larvae, Pupae and Adult Bee.
The bees use their honeycomb cells to raise their babies in, and to store nectar, honey, pollen and water.
Nectar is a sweet watery substance that the bees gather. After they process the nectar in their stomach they regurgitate it into the honeycomb cells. Then they fan with their wings to remove excess moisture. The final result is honey.
Bees are the only insect in the world that make food that humans can eat.
Honey has natural preservatives and bacteria can't grow in it.
Honey was found in the tombs in Egypt and it was still edible! Bees have been here around 30 million years.
A honeybee can fly 24 km in an hour at a speed of 15 mph. Its wings beat 200 times per second or 12,000 beats per minute.
Bees have straw-like tongues called a proboscis so they can suck up liquids and also mandibles so they can chew.
Bees carry pollen on their hind legs called a pollen basket. Pollen is a source of protein for the hive and is needed to feed to the baby bees to help them grow.
The average worker bee makes about 1/12th of a teaspoon of honey in her lifetime.
Bees have 2 pairs of wings. The wings have tiny teeth so they can lock together when the bee is flying.
Bees communicate through chemical scents called pheromones and through special bee dances.
Every 3rd mouthful of food is produced by bees pollinating crops. Flowering plants rely on bees for pollination so that they can produce fruit and seeds. Without bees pollinating these plants, there would not be very many fruits or vegetables to eat.
A single beehive can make more than 100 pounds (45 kg) of extra honey. The beekeeper only harvests the extra honey made by the bees.
The average life of a honey bee during the working season is about three to six weeks. There are five products that come from the hive: Honey, beeswax, pollen, propolis, and royal jelly.
Beeswax is produced by the bees. Bees have special glands on their stomach that secrete the wax into little wax pockets on their stomach. The bee takes the wax and chews it with her mandibles and shapes it to make honeycomb.
Propolis is a sticky substance that bees collect from the buds of trees. Bees use propolis to weatherproof their hive against drafts or in spots where rain might leak in.
People have discovered the anti-bacterial properties of propolis for use in the medical field.
Royal Jelly is a milky substance produced in a special gland in the worker bee's head. For her whole life the Queen is fed Royal Jelly by the workers.
Although bears do like honey, they prefer to eat the bee larvae.
Honey comes in different colors and flavors. The flower where the nectar was gathered from determines the flavour and color of the honey.
Bees are dying at the alarming rate of 2 meters per second! Call your local beekeeper to see how you can help our striped friends! 
Bees are always happy, we have found that bees simply cannot process sadness!
Bees think that human babies will grow up to be bees.
We have analyzed the dreams of several bees, and we have found that all of their dreams are nightmares!
A bee's brain is effectively a switch, always set to either arousal or fear!
Bees use the color yellow because it pleases their god!
Bees actually base their color pattern off the transformer bumblebee, what fans!
A newborn carpenter bee weighs less than a plumber’s teardrop.
Google is considering attaching micro-cameras to bees in order to create a countryside version of ‘streetview’, capturing the woods and fields where the google cars cannot go.
Bees are astoundingly smart, they were actually used to power early calculators!
Bees are actually one of the few types of living things that can do perfect mental math (the others being lion fish and the common house cat).
A bee’s strongest sense is not sight or smell (as commonly thought), but style!
Just like cows, bees use echolocation to find their way around!
Jack and the Beanstalk was based on a norse tale called (in English) ‘Jack and the Bees Talk’, where Jack was the giant in the story.
Bees always know where their kids are.
It has been shown that bees can read human emotions, but only in morse code.
Bees see that ‘dress’ as black and gold. They see everything as black and gold, because that is bee vision (’beesion’).
Bees can remain calm and collected at up to 4000m below sea level.
On a ship, the left side is called Port and the right side is called Starboard. Contrastingly, a hive has no labelled ‘sides’ at all. This is because hives are not in the sea.
Honeybees still use the imperial standards of measurement!
Bees count in hexadecimal!
In the original comics of the American TV series Friends, Ross was supposed to be played by a disgruntled sack of bees. 
Mozart used to keep bees inside his house because he found the constant background noise a soothing aide to composing. 
Before glass was invented, medieval monks used to pour honey into large trays and dry it in the sun to make semi-transparent sticky windows. 
My uncle found a bee once.